codebook.md, before:

#Project Codebook
Codebook describing generated dataset

Last update: 16 May 2015

This dataset provides a condensed version of information from the Human Activity
Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set, as published at 
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones.
It provides data collected by observations of
30 experimental subjects, each of whom engaged in 6 
identified activities while wearing a smartphone:
WALKING,
WALKING UPSTAIRS,
WALKING DOWNSTAIRS, 
SITTING, 
STANDING, and 
LAYING.

For each of the resulting 180 combinations, the generated
dataset provides calculated means for each of 66 variables, with names 
corresponding to those in the *features.txt*
file from the original dataset.  As directed in the course assignment, variables
with names suffixed with "-mean()" or "-std()", optionally followed by
"-X", "-Y", or "-Z" to designate dimensions, were selected; in other words, from
the input dataset, only those variables representing means and standard deviations
were processed.

For each of the variables, the generated dataset provides a computed mean of the 
input dataset's values of that variable that correspond to a particular subject
performing a particular activity. 
Note that some of the variable names
as extracted from *features.txt* differ from those in the dataset's descriptive
*features_info.txt* file, as, e.g., being prefixed by "fBodyBody" instead
of "fBody" as cited in *features_info.txt*.

Body Acceleration variables

"tBodyAcc-mean()-X"           "tBodyAcc-mean()-Y"           "tBodyAcc-mean()-Z"          
"tBodyAcc-std()-X"            "tBodyAcc-std()-Y"            "tBodyAcc-std()-Z"      

Gravity Acceleration variables  

"tGravityAcc-mean()-X"        "tGravityAcc-mean()-Y"        "tGravityAcc-mean()-Z"       
"tGravityAcc-std()-X"         "tGravityAcc-std()-Y"         "tGravityAcc-std()-Z"

Body Acceleration Jerk variables 
       
"tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"       "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"       "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"      
"tBodyAccJerk-std()-X"        "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"        "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z" 

Body Gyro variables    
  
"tBodyGyro-mean()-X"          "tBodyGyro-mean()-Y"          "tBodyGyro-mean()-Z"         
"tBodyGyro-std()-X"           "tBodyGyro-std()-Y"           "tBodyGyro-std()-Z"  

Body Gyro Jerk variables  
      
"tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X"      "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y"      "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z"     
"tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X"       "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y"       "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z" 

Body Acceleration Magnitude variables  
   
"tBodyAccMag-mean()"          "tBodyAccMag-std()"

Gravity Acceleration Magnitude variables 
          
"tGravityAccMag-mean()"      "tGravityAccMag-std()"        

Body Acceleration Jerk Magnitude variables

"tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"      "tBodyAccJerkMag-std()" 

Body Gyro Magnitude variables 
    
"tBodyGyroMag-mean()"         "tBodyGyroMag-std()"          

Body Gyro Jerk Magnitude variables

"tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"    "tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()" 

FFT-transformed Body Acceleration variables  
   
"fBodyAcc-mean()-X"           "fBodyAcc-mean()-Y"          
"fBodyAcc-mean()-Z"           "fBodyAcc-std()-X"            "fBodyAcc-std()-Y"           
"fBodyAcc-std()-Z"            

FFT-transformed Body Acceleration Jerk variables

"fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"       "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"      
"fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"       "fBodyAccJerk-std()-X"        "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"       
"fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"        

FFT-transformed Body Gyro variables

"fBodyGyro-mean()-X"          "fBodyGyro-mean()-Y"         
"fBodyGyro-mean()-Z"          "fBodyGyro-std()-X"           "fBodyGyro-std()-Y"          
"fBodyGyro-std()-Z"           

FFT-transformed Body Acceleration Magnitude variables

"fBodyAccMag-mean()"          "fBodyAccMag-std()" 

FFT-transformed Body-Body Acceleration Jerk Magnitude variables 
        
"fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"  "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()"   

FFT-transformed Body-Body Gyro Magnitude variables

"fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()"    "fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()"      

FFT-transformed Body-Body Gyro Jerk Magnitude variables

"fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()" "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"

Commit message:

Extend doc files, optimize and re-comment R code

codebook.md, after:

#Project Codebook
Codebook describing generated dataset

Last update: 17 May 2015

This dataset provides a condensed version of information from the Human Activity
Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set, as published at 
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones.
It provides data collected by observations of
30 experimental subjects, each of whom engaged in 6 
identified activities while wearing a smartphone:
WALKING,
WALKING UPSTAIRS,
WALKING DOWNSTAIRS, 
SITTING, 
STANDING, and 
LAYING.
All data was extracted from the "subject", "X", and "y" text files at the
top levels of the input dataset's "test" and "train"
subdirectories, without reference to the inertial data files in lower-level
subdirectories. 

For each of the resulting 180 combinations, the generated
dataset provides calculated means for each of 66 variables, with names 
corresponding to those in the *features.txt*
file from the original dataset.  As directed in the course assignment, variables
with names suffixed with "-mean()" or "-std()", optionally followed by
"-X", "-Y", or "-Z" to designate dimensions, were selected; in other words, from
the input dataset, only those variables representing means and standard deviations
were processed.

For each of the variables, the generated dataset provides a computed mean of the 
input dataset's values of that variable that correspond to a particular subject
performing a particular activity. 
Note that some of the variable names
as extracted from *features.txt* differ from those in the dataset's descriptive
*features_info.txt* file, as, e.g., being prefixed by "fBodyBody" instead
of "fBody" as cited in *features_info.txt*.

Body Acceleration variables

"tBodyAcc-mean()-X"           "tBodyAcc-mean()-Y"           "tBodyAcc-mean()-Z"          
"tBodyAcc-std()-X"            "tBodyAcc-std()-Y"            "tBodyAcc-std()-Z"      

Gravity Acceleration variables  

"tGravityAcc-mean()-X"        "tGravityAcc-mean()-Y"        "tGravityAcc-mean()-Z"       
"tGravityAcc-std()-X"         "tGravityAcc-std()-Y"         "tGravityAcc-std()-Z"

Body Acceleration Jerk variables 
       
"tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"       "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"       "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"      
"tBodyAccJerk-std()-X"        "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"        "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z" 

Body Gyro variables    
  
"tBodyGyro-mean()-X"          "tBodyGyro-mean()-Y"          "tBodyGyro-mean()-Z"         
"tBodyGyro-std()-X"           "tBodyGyro-std()-Y"           "tBodyGyro-std()-Z"  

Body Gyro Jerk variables  
      
"tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X"      "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y"      "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z"     
"tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X"       "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y"       "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z" 

Body Acceleration Magnitude variables  
   
"tBodyAccMag-mean()"          "tBodyAccMag-std()"

Gravity Acceleration Magnitude variables 
          
"tGravityAccMag-mean()"      "tGravityAccMag-std()"        

Body Acceleration Jerk Magnitude variables

"tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"      "tBodyAccJerkMag-std()" 

Body Gyro Magnitude variables 
    
"tBodyGyroMag-mean()"         "tBodyGyroMag-std()"          

Body Gyro Jerk Magnitude variables

"tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"    "tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()" 

FFT-transformed Body Acceleration variables  
   
"fBodyAcc-mean()-X"           "fBodyAcc-mean()-Y"          
"fBodyAcc-mean()-Z"           "fBodyAcc-std()-X"            "fBodyAcc-std()-Y"           
"fBodyAcc-std()-Z"            

FFT-transformed Body Acceleration Jerk variables

"fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"       "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"      
"fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"       "fBodyAccJerk-std()-X"        "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"       
"fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"        

FFT-transformed Body Gyro variables

"fBodyGyro-mean()-X"          "fBodyGyro-mean()-Y"         
"fBodyGyro-mean()-Z"          "fBodyGyro-std()-X"           "fBodyGyro-std()-Y"          
"fBodyGyro-std()-Z"           

FFT-transformed Body Acceleration Magnitude variables

"fBodyAccMag-mean()"          "fBodyAccMag-std()" 

FFT-transformed Body-Body Acceleration Jerk Magnitude variables 
        
"fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"  "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()"   

FFT-transformed Body-Body Gyro Magnitude variables

"fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()"    "fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()"      

FFT-transformed Body-Body Gyro Jerk Magnitude variables

"fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()" "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"
